## Your First Element

Finally, it's time to start getting our hands dirty!

*  Clone the knowledge center repository found [here](https://github.com/MaritzSTL/mtz-app-knowledge-center)
using your favorite version control system. This project contains our Polymer
coding sandbox.

*  Using the terminal, navigate to the cloned directory. You can see a lot of
material in the project but all we care about right now is the `tutorial` directory.

*  Navigate to the `tutorial/simple-element` directory.

## Start Out Simple
Listing the contents of the `tutorial/simple-element` directory reveals the typical
structure of a Polymer element. We have one or more html documents defining our
components (i.e, `simple-element.html`), various nested directories and some additional
files. For now, let's focus on `simple-element.html`. If you want clarification on the others that you see just
hang in there! We'll come to those later on in the tutorial.

*  Open `simple-element.html`.

Take a moment to scan the file and think about what you see. Don't worry if the
document appears strange at first. It always does. It'll make more sense as we
progress. However, a couple of important "Polymer-isms" can be found:
  1. The link at the top of the page with rel="import".
  2. The unfamiliar `<dom-module>` tag surrounding all of the page content.
  3. A `<template>` tag containing styles and other markup.
  4. Some JavaScript at the bottom of the page.

These four things combine to assemble a powerful construct called a *custom element*
which you'll come to know extremely well.

## Polymer Import and the Import Relationship
```html
  <link rel="import" href="../polymer/polymer.html">
```
HTML supports a `<link>` element which allows linking of one or more files to
the file in which the link is declared. The `rel` attribute specifies
the relationship that the target file (specified by `href`) has to the file containing
the `<link>`. In this case, this link is telling the browser to import
the contents of the file located at the relative path `../polymer/polymer.html`.
**Note: The Polymer import must be included at the top of the file**.

[comment]: <> (TODO How to indicate that the ../polymer/polymer.html href is referencing bower directory and is relative. Therefore, the location may change, etc.)

## `<dom-module>`

```html
  <dom-module id="simple-element">
    ...beautiful element stuff...
  </dom-module>
```

  While this element sounds like something out of a Star Wars episode, it's not.
Although it's still pretty awesome! Get ready for this incredible definition...
the `<dom-module>` element is used to specify a module of DOM. :-P If that doesn't
make sense, fear not. I'll go into detail.

### The DOM
HTML consists of many different elements which come in the form
  ```html
    <element-name>
      ...some content...
    </element-name>
  ```
where an element has opening and closing tags and some content in between. For
example, in `simple-element.html` we can see the following:
```html
  <h2>[[prop1]]!</h2>
```
In this example, the opening and closing `<h2>` tags surround some content. So,
how is it that the browser understands what this snippet means and where to place
the content? The browser understands by constructing an model that represents the
document called the *Document Object Model*, or the *DOM*. This is really helpful
for us because it doesn't have to be static. For example, let's say the browser receives
an HTML file and constructs the DOM associated with that page. In order to update
the web page we can just update the DOM in the browser. This means content can be
dynamically added and removed from a given web page at runtime.

TODO Refine that above. Not well worded.

### The Module  
So, that's all great. But what's meant by *module* here? Have you every heard the
phrase "Don't Repeat Yourself?" This phrase is commonly smashed into the acronym
DRY. DRY is a quick and easy way of suggesting that software should be designed
in a manner that maximizes reuse of code which, in turn, maximizes the value
offered by that code and minimizes the number of changes required to modify that
code. This isn't the only benefit afforded by modular code but it's a big one!
It's in this vein that we use the term module. A module is a collection of related
code.

### So, What's a DOM Module?
Returning to our discussion of the `<dom-module>` element above, the ridiculous
definition I used is starting to make sense, right? The `<dom-module>` element
is, in fact, used to define a module of DOM. That is, a collection of related
code that defines the model the browser sees when our custom element is seen in
an HTML file.

TODO should I refine the DOM MODULE lesson above? Good but could come together
better.

## `<template>`
```html  
  <template>
    ...some template stuff...
  </template>
```
What is a template? Where have you seen the term in other areas of life? There are
drawing templates, cookie templates and many more. How are these templates used?
When I take a drawing template and I trace the edges provided by the template I
always get the same resulting drawing afterward. For example, a template outlining
a house will always result in a house. You won't draw a house four times followed
by a giraffe (unless something odd is going on :-P). Templates in the polymer realm
are conceptually the same. The `<template>` element in the polymer realm specifies
an outline for the module content so that every time the custom element is seen
in an HTML file the same content will be stamped in place of its name.

TODO The template actually refers to template in transpiler terms. Include here?
TODO Probably not good to load newbies with that. Should defer to later.

## JavaScript at the Bottom of the Page
```javascript
  Polymer({
    is: 'simple-element',
    ...
  });
```
Whaaaaaaat? Why is there JavaScript at the bottom of this HTML file? Don't worry.
That seems a bit odd until you get used to it. The reason this JavaScript is in
our HTML file is actually simple. In Polymer, what we're specifying in our html
file is a custom element. However, custom elements that only allow us to specify
the markup to use in place of that element are extremely limited. What we need is
a manner to couple that markup with functionality. It's starting to make sense,
right? The JavaScript is present in the HTML file because what we're defining
is a custom element not just html. And that custom element has to be capable of
having custom behavior otherwise there wouldn't be much of a point in having
custom elements in the first place. We define our custom behavior in that JavaScript.

### The Polymer Function
You may have noticed that our element definition appears to be the input to a function
called Polymer. First of all, good eye! The Polymer(...) function allows us to define
the name of our custom element (this must match the id attribute present in the
`<dom-module>` element), [element properties](https://www.polymer-project.org/1.0/docs/devguide/properties),
and more.

### But, Defining Styling, Markup and Logic in the Same File is a Code Smell!
TODO Should this be included here or no?

## Web Components
Previously, four aspects of our simple element were identified as being notable
for polymer in our `simple-element.html` file:
  1. The link at the top of the page with rel="import".
  2. The unfamiliar `<dom-module>` tag surrounding all of the page content.
  3. A `<template>` tag containing styles and other markup.
  4. Some JavaScript at the bottom of the page.

Well, actually these four items aren't specific to Polymer. They're part of an
awesome standard coming forth in the web domain called the [Web Components Standard](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components).
This standard attempts to increase the modularity and flexability of the web
platform by introducing four concepts which map well to those we identified earlier:
  1. HTML Imports Standard.
  2. Shadow DOM Standard.
  3. HTML Templates Standard.
  4. Custom Elements Standard.
  
Polymer was created to provide browser compatibility and easy adoption of the
web component standard. Don't worry if this is fuzzy to you right now because
you're absorbing a lot of information! We'll go into the nitty gritty of those
individual standards in separate lessons.
