## Introduction

TODO: Replace descriptions of the output with actual images of what to expect so
TODO that learners can verify against that.

In the previous lesson we learned a little bit about the different components we
need to define in a custom element when using Polymer and now we're going to take
a giant step forward, roll up our sleeves and start breaking %#@&.

## Bring on the Demo
Before we demolish stuff we need to get it operational. Otherwise, how will we
know that we successfully broke it? :-D Therefore, we're going to setup and run
our first custom element demo (demo as in demonstration not demolition.....yet :-P).

### Grab Those Dependencies
In order to run our custom element demo we need to make sure we grab the necessary
dependencies. To install our dependencies we simply:
  * Open our terminal.
  * Navigate to the `tutorial/simple-element` directory within our cloned project.
  * Run the command `polymer install` in our terminal.

This command will install all of dependencies so that, when we run our demo, those
dependencies are present. If the dependencies aren't installed previous to running
the demo it'll still run but opening the demo page will show a lot of white and
nothing else. This is one of those "Make sure you plug it in!" errors that bites
all of us at some point.

### Let's See Simple Element!
Now that the dependencies are installed we can serve our application locally using
our trusty polymer CLI. To do so,
  * run `polymer serve` in the terminal when in the `tutorial/simple-element`
  directory. That command should output two URLs housing our simple element.
  * Copy and paste the URL shown in the terminal containing demo in its name into
  a browser.
  * Get Ready to RUMBLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLE!

You should see the message "Get Ready to RUMBLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLE!" in a little box
on the page. Okay, so now we've made sure our demo works.....now it's time to
break it. :-D

### Demolition Time


TODO Ensure sufficient information about polymer CLI.
