Deep, deep down in the murky depths of the browser resides a simple, 3-method interface the careers of most web developers rests upon. This interface was introduced to do much the same thing the browser does... but slightly differently. Slightly abnormally.

Slightly...*sharky*.

For all of recorded history, we've been able to do this:

```
<p>catbus</p>
```

We've been blessed with a rich panoply of [html tags](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element) we can use however we'd like.

But, never before have we been able to do something so **DEVIOUS**, so *DEPRAVED* or so ** *VILE* ** as releasing a shark to feast upon innocent surfers of the web:

```
<internet-shark></internet-shark>
```

BUT NOW WE CAN! And incidentally, this is the bedrock both Polymer and the browser are built on. That's because the entire browser really is HTML & JS, all the way down.

When the browser receives a piece of markup, say

```
<video>
  <source src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dQw4w9WgXcQ" type="video/mp4">
</video>
```

It'll then embed a video onto your page with playback controls.

Remember, HTML is markup, JS is behavior. So when your browser sees `<video>`, it will go seek some corresponding behavior in Javascript.

## The Custom Element Registry

In your browser, right now, pull up the console. Type in `customElements.` You'll get an object in return that looks something like `CustomElementRegistry {}`. In fact, it's an instance of it. (You can try this, too.)

`window.customElements instanceof CustomElementRegistry`

If we want to put our shark on the page, we need to use the first of the three methods this provides - `define()`. This method accepts three things:

* name - the name of our new custom element, or what our markup will correspond with
* constructor - the constructor for our new custom element, or the javascript that will add behavior.

Take a look at a really simple one. In fact, you can copy & paste this into your console.

```
class BasicElement extends HTMLElement {
  connectedCallback() {
    this.textContent = 'Just a basic custom element.';
  }
}
customElements.define('basic-element', BasicElement);
```

Then, were you to edit your html and drop in `<basic-element></basic-element>`, you'd see exactly what you'd expect: the text defined up above.

## customElements.get()

When the browser saw `<basic-element></basic-element>`, how did it know what javascript to go execute? It did this via `customElements.get()`. You can try it right now in your browser:

`customElements.get('basic-element');`

You'll see this returns a `constructor`, which is the way a javascript object starts. All the behavior defined in your JS then gets implanted onto the page.

That's it. That's how the browser operates when it sees your custom elements. This is what Polymer uses under the hood.

## customElement.whenDefined()

One other useful method is this one. I use this mainly to help myself know when an import works.

```
customElements.whenDefined('basic-element').then(function() {
  console.log('It worked! basic-element hurr');
});
```

## Naming

Letting everybody define their own custom elements comes with some other challenges to tackle. Firstly, what happens when everybody's allowed to define their own stuff? You could end up with tons of naming conflicts. And what happens if that interferes with regular browser execution? That would be terrible.

To prevent this, a custom element *must* contain at least one dash (`-`). If you clicked on the link of all the html tags, you'll notice...not a single one has a dash. That's how you know if a tag is browser-defined, or user-defined somewhere.

If you look at the open-sourced Maritz elements, you'll notice they're all prepended with `mtz-`. Other popular libraries, such as the Paper Elements are all prepended with `paper-`. Intelligent usage of these prefixes is how everyone can both use custom elements, and avoid naming conflicts.

To keep everything sensible, the JS class is typically the camel-cased form of the tag.

## Internet Shark

Now... we will release the BEAST FROM THE DEEP.

```
class InternetShark extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
    super();
  }

  connectedCallback() {
    console.log("internet shark reporting for duty");
    var img = document.createElement('img');
    img.alt = 'SURFERS BeWaRe';
    img.src = 'images/shark.png';
    img.width = '150';
    img.height = '150';
    img.className = 'internet-shark';
    this.appendChild(img);
  }
}

customElements.define('internet-shark', InternetShark);
```

## Conclusion & Exercise

In this codebase resides a smorgasbord. Thought it would be fun if every person who onboards must define and add their own custom element there. It can be whatever you want. Mine is internet shark. Get weird. Get real weird.

So, first, define your own element in `/src`. Then hop over into `pkc-smorgasbord`, import it, and get it doing whatever it is you wanted it to do. For reference, see `internet-shark`, and [this](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Custom_Elements).

[Link to smorgasbord](/smorgasbord)
